A plugin to assist in the Hyprland 0.55 migration from hyprlang to lua, using Neovim's built-in Treesitter parsing.
Made for fun, conversion is done on a best-effort basis.

# Installation

## Requirements

Install `tree-sitter-hyprlang` parser + queries into Neovim via your method of choice (e.g. nvim-treesitter).

Neovim 0.12+ is officially supported. This might work with 0.10 and 0.11 as well.

```lua
vim.pack.add({
    src = "https://github.com/pynappo/hyprlang-to-lua.nvim"
})
```

# Usage

In a hyprlang buffer, `:HyprlangToLuaSplit` will open a new split containing the autogenerated Lua code for the selected
Hyprlang text. To convert the whole buffer, you can select it with `:%HyprlangToLuaSplit`.

The intended workflow is that if the auto-generated code looks good, you can run `:saveas
~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` (or whatever the file is supposed to be). Or you can cherry-pick segments and yank/put
them as you see fit.

Any comments by hyprlang-to-lua (warnings, enclosing comments denoting autogeneration) will have `hyprlang-to-lua` in
them for easy searching.

If you want headless operation (i.e. to pipe the result into a new file), run:

```bash
nvim --headless --cmd "autocmd VimEnter * lua
require('hyprlang-to-lua').convert_to_stdout_then_quit('$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hypr/hyprland.conf')"
```

## Capabilities

- Variables (as in config options): Most common options should translate properly. Gradients are not currently
translated properly.
- Variables (as in hyprlang variables): Current support is for options that take colors and for use in binds.
- Keywords: most common ones are implemented (exec and variants, window rules, monitors, etc.).
- Binds: A great deal of effort was put into making the bind translation work properly for all dispatchers. It's
probably not perfect but should just work for most binds.
- Source statements: Should work in most common cases, will be commented out if it doesn't work.

## Non-goals

- Rules with multiple matchers of the same type (e.g. two `match:class` rules in a window rule) will keep only one of
them. hyprlang-to-lua will leave comments about this, but it won't automatically generate the extra copy of the window
rule for you.
- There's some amount of effort to keep the generated lua looking reasonable (in terms of line length, table formatting,
  indentation, etc.), but it is not as good as an actual formatter like
[StyLua](https://github.com/JohnnyMorganz/StyLua).

# Developing

Tools:

- lua-language-server
- Neovim
- mise (for dev tasks)
- Hyprland 0.55+ (or have the lua stubs available at /usr/share/hypr/stubs/).

# AI disclosure

- Used Gemini for writing some string manipulation code (particularly, some complex lua pattern strings).
- Pretty much everything else (including this README) is human-written.
